Plugins refactoring - new instrumentation package for plugins (#1540)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js: packages/opentelemetry-instrumentation/README.md

# OpenTelemetry Instrumentation for web and node

[![Gitter chat][gitter-image]][gitter-url]
[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![dependencies][dependencies-image]][dependencies-url]
[![devDependencies][devDependencies-image]][devDependencies-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation
```

## Usage in Node

> ```typescript

Reviewer: This example is very complex and hard to follow. Nothing seems wrong, but we should consider creating a guide that explains each component.

Author: I would be in favor of adding that once I finish the graphql plugin as basically new plugin for graphql is helping me to refactor the plugins in general too - if you know what I mean. It should not change much but some small changes might yet appear.

Author: simplified

import {
  Instrumentation,
  InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition,
  InstrumentationNodeModuleFile,
} from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';

> import * as module_name_to_be_pached from 'module_name_to_be_pached';

Reviewer: It is important to use `import type` to prevent a `require` from being emitted and causing a circular dependency.

```suggestion
import type * as module_name_to_be_pached from 'module_name_to_be_pached';
```

export class MyPlugin extends Instrumentation {
  constructor(config: api.InstrumentationConfig = {}) {
    super('MyPlugin', VERSION, config);
  }

>   // init method is default method that needs to be defined where
>   // definitions for patching should be defined. It will be then called
>   // before enabling the plugin and loading

Reviewer: Wording is confusing here. Suggest something like this:

```suggestion
  // init method will be called when the plugin is constructed.
  // It returns an `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition` which describes the node module to be instrumented and patched.
  // It may also return a list of `InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition`s if the plugin should patch multiple modules or versions.
```

  protected _init() {
    const module = new InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition<typeof module_name_to_be_pached>(
      'module_name_to_be_pached',
      ['1.*'],

>        (moduleExports: typeof module_name_to_be_pached) => {

Reviewer: It might be better to make these functions methods of the class with names to make it more clear what they're for to people unfamiliar with writing opentelemetry instrumentation.

Author: simplified

      'module_name_to_be_pached/src/some_file.js',
      (moduleExports: typeof module_name_to_be_pached) => {
        this._wrap(
          moduleExports,
          'methodName',
          this._patchMethodName()
        );
        return moduleExports;
      },
      (moduleExports: typeof module_name_to_be_pached) => {
        this._unwrap(moduleExports, 'methodName');
      }
    );
    return file;
  }

  private _patchMethodName(): (original) => any {
    const plugin = this;
    return function methodName(original) {
      return function patchMethodName(this: any): PromiseOrValue<module_name_to_be_pached.methodName> {
        console.log('methodName', arguments);
        return original.apply(this, arguments);
      };
    };
  }

  private _patchMainMethodName(): (original) => any {
    const plugin = this;
    return function mainMethodName(original) {
      return function patchMainMethodName(this: any): PromiseOrValue<module_name_to_be_pached.mainMethodName> {
        console.log('mainMethodName', arguments);
        return original.apply(this, arguments);
      };
    };
  }
}

// Later

const myPLugin = new MyPlugin();

> myPLugin.setTracerProvider(provider);

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment that setting tracer and meter provider is optional and API will be used.

# OpenTelemetry Instrumentation for web and node

[![Gitter chat][gitter-image]][gitter-url]
[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![dependencies][dependencies-image]][dependencies-url]
[![devDependencies][devDependencies-image]][devDependencies-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save @opentelemetry/instrumentation
```

## Usage in Node

```typescript
import {
  InstrumentationBase,
  InstrumentationConfig,
  InstrumentationNodeModuleDefinition,
  InstrumentationNodeModuleFile,
} from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';

> import type * as module_name_to_be_pached from 'module_name_to_be_pached';

Reviewer 2: Should this be `module_name_to_be_patched` instead? If so, this typo present throughout the example.

Author: yes, nice spot, thx
